Next step I'm grouping to array methods together.
They're called every and some.
So both of these methods are boolean methods.
They return true or false at the end of the day after they run.
You get true or false.
So every is going to accept a callback which itself needs to be a boolean callback.
It returns true or false.
It's a test and it runs that function on every or with every element in the array.
And if it gets true for every element then the whole function the whole method of every return is true.
So it's a way of verifying or checking does every element in this array have three letters or does every
element end with a letter G.
So as an example let's try this out we have a word's array over here.
If I wanted to check if every word has a length of 3 I would do words dot every and then I pass in my
boolean function.
This function also called the test function needs to return true or false so I'll say for every word
does that word dot length equal 3 and I'll save this to a variable called all 3 letters or something.
Not the most graceful variable name.
Let's run it and see what we get.
All three Lutz is true but as soon as I change one of these to be four letters or two letters and I
run it again it's false.
This function has to return true for every single element in order for every to return true.
So let's go back to what we had.
We could do another test if they all end with the letter G.
So that would be words dot every and I'll do this on multiple lines just so that we have some diversity
here for every word.
That would be our parameter.
Let's calculate the last index.
So we'll go with last equals and then word length minus 1.
That gives us the last index.
Remember length is always one more than the last index and then we'll use that to return word of last.
Triple equals G.
So we're getting the last index which for all of these there are only three letters.
So the last index will be two and then we're saying is word of two equal to the letter G and save that
to a variable.
Let's go with concept all g all end in G.
And if we check over here all and in G is true but of course I change one of them to be bet with a T
it's no longer true.
So that's every it takes a boolean function it runs it on every element in the array and if it always
gets true for the entire array then every itself returns true.
Next we have some some is similar.
It does kind of the same process but it only cares if any of those elements pass the test.
So if there's at least one element in the array that pass the test that return true then the entire
method of some returns true.
So with this example array of words if I wanted to check if some of the words start with D it would
be words dot some and then word will do word of zero equals D.
So this is a boolean function we pass in.
It has to be a true or false returning function and some will call it once per elements.
And as long as it gets one true that's all that matters.
Words that some will return true or the sum method.
So we'll go with whom.
I don't know these variables are really hard to name const some.
Start with D is quite the lengthy name.
Let's check it out.
Some start with D.
Yes that is true.
We have two elements that start with D.
If I instead did words dot every word starts with D.
We'll call this every year all start with D we get false as you can see here versus some start is true.
So the only difference here was some in every some needs just one element to return true every needs.
All of them to return true.
Let's try one more every one two words dot every actually.
Let's bring our books back and let's try a couple more examples with our good friend.
This book array let's write some code to check if every book is at least three point five stars or three
point five whatever rating or higher.
So we would call books dot every for each book we want to know if book dot rating is greater than three
point five and we'll save this to a variable.
All good books.
Let's take a look.
All good books is true.
If I instead did 4.5 and higher
that's false because we have plenty of books that are not four point five or higher.
So let's go back to it.
Let's leave it up for them.
Three point five.
I think all of these books are good.
I would feel bad saying that one of them is not good.
Some of these older books Lord of the Flies.
People always write them lower and that's right one more to see if any of these books have two authors.
So that would be a concept.
Let's go with any two authors equals books dad.
Some book book that authors got length equals two.
So we're passing in our function the test function it will return true if a given book has exactly two
authors authors felt like this too.
And we're using some.
So we just need one of them to be true.
We'll run it any two authors is true.
Okay.
So that is some and every day follow a similar pattern but they behave differently every needs every
element to pass this test.
Some just needs one to pass.